1. {'item_id': 345, 'chunk': 'When an exam question is read, a mental representation of the task is formed in each student’s mind. This processing can be affected by features such as visual resources (e.g. pictures, diagrams, photographs, tables), which can come to dominate the mental representation due to their salience. Purpose The aim of this research was to investigate the effects of visual resources in exam questions and, in particular, to investigate how and when students use images and whether subtle changes to these salient physical features can affect whether a question is understood and answered in the way intended by the question-setters.', 
'item_data': {'page': 2, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The 
effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Null', 'chunk_id': 2, 'subsection': 'Background'}}



2. {'item_id': 353, 'chunk': 'Elsevier).]). The latter is thought to be a result of the apparent ease of processing an image giving students the false impression that they have fully understood an image when they have not (Weidenmann, 1989 [Weidenmann, B. (1989) When good pictures fail: an information-processing approach to the effect of illustrations, in: H. Mandl 
& J. R. Levin (Eds) Knowledge acquisition from text and pictures: Advances in Psychology 58 (Amsterdam, Elsevier).]). In addition, Winn (1989)[Winn, W. (1989) The design and use of instructional graphics, in: H. Mandl & J. R. Levin (Eds)vKnowledge acquisition from text and pictures: Advances in Psychology 58 (Amsterdam, Elsevier)] warns text designers of making assumptions that all students will process a particular image in a particular way. This idiosyncrasy of interpretation is also implied by Elkins (1998)[ Elkins, J. (1998) On pictures and the words that fail them (Cambridge, Cambridge University Press).], an art historian, who asserts that visual images do not provide meaning via an orderly set of signs in the same way as a text. The main risk of including images in the context of examining is that an image may lead to the formation of a mental representation of a question that does not match the meaning intended by the question-setters. When a student reads a question, a mental model (or mental representation) is constructed as a response to the text being processed (Pollitt & Ahmed, 1999 [ Pollitt, A. & Ahmed, A. (1999) A new model of the question answering process. Paper presented at the International Association for Educational Assessment Annual Conference (Cambridge,University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate). Available online at: http://www.cambridgeassessment.org.uk/research/confproceedingsetc/ (accessed 14 April 2006).]). This representation is composed of images, concepts and emotions, and the relationships between concepts, but not of actual words. It is based on ideas that are already', 
'item_data': {'page': 4, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Introduction', 'chunk_id': 10, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


3. {'item_id': 379, 'chunk': 'developed as a result of their past experiences of tests, exams papers and so on (Sweiry et al ., 2002 [ Sweiry, E., Crisp, V., Ahmed, A. & Pollitt, A. (2002) Tales of the expected: the influence of students’ expectations on exam validity: a paper presented at the British Educational Research Association Annual Conference (Cambridge, University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate). Available online at: http://www.cambridgeassessment.org.uk/research/confproceedingsetc/(accessed 14 April 2006).]). It could be argued that as well as affecting the amount that students use visuals, the nature of a visual can inﬂuence the type of reasoning that students use when attempting a question. Evans and Over (1996) distinguish between two kinds of reasoning, what can be called ‘naturalistic reasoning’ which is innate and is used in everyday functioning, and ‘formal reasoning’ which is logical and learnt. It is the latter reasoning that exams seek to assess. There is some evidence from students’ comments about question 2 (statue question) which would suggest that scientiﬁc diagrams are more likely to encourage formal reasoning, and naturalistic pictures are more likely to elicit inappropriate naturalistic reasoning. The research ﬁndings also provide evidence that students have sensible expectations regarding what is important in a visual resource. For example, the students realized that in the visual resource for the children’s 
meal question (question 5) it was the ingredients that were important, that the images were intended to be generic rather than showing the actual meal, and that the size of portion shown was not relevant to answering. Students also realized that the image of the can of corned beef should not be used in question 6. It seems that students’ expectations can prevent a potentially salient feature of an image (e.g. the large portion size of chicken nuggets) from dominating their ideas. Question 1 (insects) gives us some', 
'item_data': {'page': 14, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Results', 'chunk_id': 36, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


4. {'item_id': 349, 'chunk': 'Physical aspects of the way an exam question is presented can inﬂuence students’ understanding of the task. For example, the location of question elements on a page can affect whether they are processed thoroughly and how important a particular piece of information is perceived to be. The visual resources contained in exam questions, such as pictures, tables, diagrams and photographs, can sometimes inﬂuence students’ understanding and responses (Fisher-Hoch et al ., 1997[Fisher-Hoch, H., Hughes, S. & Bramley, T. (1997) What makes GCSE examination questionsdifficult? Outcomes of manipulating difficulty of GCSE questions: a paper presented at the BritishEducational Research Association Annual Conference (Cambridge, University of Cambridge LocalExaminations Syndicate). Available online at: http://www.cambridgeassessment.org.uk/', 
'item_data': {'page': 3, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Introduction', 'chunk_id': 6, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


5. {'item_id': 378, 'chunk': 'the question. The visual resource in this question is of a slightly different nature to those in the other questions: ﬁrst, it is a more technical diagram, and secondly, the diagram in version 2 provides a strong clue to the answer. Taking the second of these points ﬁrst, in comparing the two question versions it is not the case that version 2 provides more information than version 1 as both versions indicate that end B moves down. However, version 2 indicates this in the diagram as well as in the text, whilst version 1 provides inconsistent information between text and diagram. In version 1 the diagram seems to have led some students away from the correct answer due to its relative salience despite the clarity of the information in the text. The diagram in version 2 appears to have clariﬁed the information for a signiﬁcant percentage of students. This evidence is consistent with the view of Goldstein and Underwood (1981) [ Ollerenshaw, A., Aidman, E. & Kidd, G. (1997) Is an illustration always worth ten thousand words?Effects of prior knowledge, learning style and multimedia illustrations on text comprehension, International Journal of Instructional Media, 24(3), 227–238.] and the ﬁndings of Peeck (1974). A further reason for the bigger 
impact on students’ behaviour in this question than in the others may be the nature of the visual resource. The resource in the balance question is a more technical diagram whilst those in the other questions researched in the study are less technical pictures, photographs or sketches. It seems that more technical or more diagrammatic visuals are likely to be perceived as more appropriate to use in answering than less technical images. This may be a result of the expectations that students have developed as a result of their past experiences of tests,', 'item_data': {'page': 14, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Results', 'chunk_id': 35, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


6. {'item_id': 374, 'chunk': 'constraint. Despite the small number of questions investigated and the statistically insigniﬁcant differences for four of the ﬁve versioned questions, the research does provide insight beyond the speciﬁc examples involved. In addition, where ﬁndings from this study are in keeping with research literature from the context of instructional texts, the generalizability of ﬁndings is improved and the relevance of research on instructional texts to the context of exam questions is to some extent conﬁrmed. First, question 2 (statue) as well as some student comments with regard to other questions (question 5, children’s meal, and question 9, components of a balanced diet) provide evidence to inform decisions over whether to include a visual resource, particularly when it is not strictly needed. Some students found having an illustration reassuring and implied that they made a question 
seem less daunting. Others viewed such images as unnecessary and not useful. One explanation for the diversity might be that student ability affects how students use illustrations and 
hence whether students view them as helpful. Those with weaker reading skills are likely to lack conﬁdence in their ability to process text and hence generally refer to illustrations more often in search of clues (Willows et al ., 1981 [ Willows, D. M., Borwick, D. & Hayvren, M. (1981) The content of school readers, in: T. G. Waller & G. E. Mackinnon (Eds) Reading research: advances in theory and practice, Vol. 2(New York, Academic Press).]), whilst those with better reading skills are likely to refer to illustrations less and hence view those that are not strictly needed as redundant. Unfortunately, weaker readers may be exactly those who are most likely to use images inappropriately, for example, being less skilled at distinguishing between relevant and irrelevant information and at integrating information from pictures and text (Peeck, 199 [', 
'item_data': {'page': 13, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Results', 'chunk_id': 31, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


7. {'item_id': 351, 'chunk': '(1989) The design and use of instructional graphics, in: H. Mandl & J. R. Levin (Eds)Knowledge acquisition from text and pictures: Advances in Psychology 
58 (Amsterdam, Elsevier)]). Peeck (1993) [ Peeck, J. (1993) Increasing picture effects in learning from illustrated text, Learning and Instruction,3, 227–238.]makes a similar point when she writes that images ‘might help to clarify and interpret text content that is hard to comprehend’ (p. 228). It is also argued that graphics can provide more information than can be explained in words (e.g. Stewart et al ., 1979[Stewart, J. H., Van Kirk, J. & Rowell, R. (1979) Concept maps: a tool for use in biology teaching, American Biology Teacher, 41, 171–175.]). These are justiﬁable reasons for including visual resources in exams, as including a clear illustration rather than a textual description could reduce the length of questions and help students to access questions involving abstract concepts. In addition, images are generally believed to have a motivational role in the context of instructional texts (Peeck, 1993[Peeck, J. (1993) Increasing picture effects in learning from illustrated text, Learning and Instruction, 3, 227–238.]), which could equally apply to exam questions. 140 V. Crisp and 
E. Sweiry', 
'item_data': {'page': 3, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Introduction', 'chunk_id': 8, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


8. {'item_id': 382, 'chunk': 'The use of visual resources in examination papers can serve various positive purposes. However, the effects of images are somewhat unpredictable and hence caution is required. It is important to ensure that, when used, visual resources are accurate and complete, contain minimal irrelevance and do not cause ambiguity. If a visual resource is not strictly needed in a question, the writer will need to balance the advantage that it may make the question seem less daunting against the possible risks that parts of the text may not be read thoroughly or that a student may be led astray by an element in a visual resource that was not intended to be important. Considering the salience and perceived relevance of visual elements can aid the prediction of their effects. The relative salience (or prominence) of visual elements can affect the extent to which they are attended to and used (e.g. data within a table may be given more attention than other text). Therefore the elements that are key to the question should be the most salient ones in the question as a whole, whether they are presented in text or by illustration. If the key information is in the text, then any visual resource should support it rather than contradict or draw attention away from it. In addition, it is worth question-setters considering students’ expectations about visual resources since they can affect which elements of a question students perceive as relevant (e.g. information provided in a diagram may receive more attention than information from a sketch). Although using visual resources appropriately is probably most crucial in high- stakes testing where there is no teacher to mediate students’ understanding of a question, it is also important in teaching materials as any misunderstandings of concepts could be long-lasting. As a result, the ﬁndings', 
'item_data': {'page': 15, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Conclusion', 'chunk_id': 39, 'subsection': 'Null'}}


9. {'item_id': 350, 'chunk': 'research/confproceedingsetc/ (accessed 14 April 2006).]). The visual resources used in teaching resources (e.g. printed textbooks and teacher-prepared handouts, worksheets, tests and homework exercises) will affect students’ comprehension of these materials. Hence this investigation, although set in the context of external examining, also has implications for the preparation of teaching materials. Visual resources are sometimes included in exam questions to test students’ abilities to interpret them, but they are more commonplace than this alone would warrant. There seems to have been little research into the effects of including visual resources in examination questions. However, research on the 
inﬂuences of illustrations in instructional texts provides some relevant insights. Such research has often found pictures to have a positive inﬂuence on learning and retention, with text being remembered better when it is illustrated (Ollerenshaw et al ., 1997[Ollerenshaw, A., Aidman, E. & Kidd, G. (1997) Is an illustration always worth ten thousand words? Effects of prior knowledge, learning style and multimedia illustrations on text comprehension,International Journal of Instructional Media, 24(3), 227–238.]; Weidenmann, 1989[Weidenmann, B. (1989) When good pictures fail: an information-processing approach to the effect of illustrations, in: H. Mandl & J. R. Levin (Eds) Knowledge acquisition from text and pictures: Advances 
in Psychology 58 (Amsterdam, Elsevier).]; Schnotz, 2002[ Schnotz, W. (2002) Towards an integrated view of learning from text and visual displays, Educational Psychology Review, 14(1), 
101–120.]). However, the main purpose of exam questions is to assess learning rather than teach and hence this alone does not justify their use in exams. Various other positive beneﬁts reported by research on instructional texts may explain the use of visual resources in examination questions. Graphics are thought to ‘simplify the complex’ and ‘make the abstract more concrete’ (Winn, 1989, p. 127 [ Winn, W. (1989) The design and use of instructional graphics, in: H.', 
'item_data': {'page': 3, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Introduction', 'chunk_id': 7, 'subsection': 'Null'}}



10. {'item_id': 347, 'chunk': 'Where two versions of a question were trialled in parallel, the differences in the visual resources signiﬁcantly affected marks for one question and had 
smaller effects on marks and the nature of answers with some of the others. There were mixed views from students over whether a visual resource that is not strictly necessary should be used. Some considered it reassuring, whilst others deemed it unnecessary. Evidence in the literature suggests that caution may be needed since there is a risk that some students may pay too much attention to the image. Findings from one question (question 6) indicated that visuals can increase the likelihood of students making unhelpful interpretations of a question. Students were seen to have sensible expectations regarding when to use information from a visual resource and what is important in an illustration. In addition, more use tended to be made of a technical diagram (in question 12) in comparison to pictures or sketches, and it was found that if an image provides a clue to an answer, this may be used in preference to 
information in the text. Evidence regarding the use that students made of a table (question 1) indicated that the data in the table cells were given more attention than some of the preceding text and text in a header. This might apply similarly to other resources like graphs and charts. * Corresponding author. Cambridge Assessment, 1 Hills Road, Cambridge CB1 2EU, UK. Email: crisp.v@cambridgeassessment.org.uk Educational Research, Vol. 48, No. 2, June 2006, pp. 139 – 154 ISSN 0013-1881 (print)/ISSN 1469-5847 (online)/06/020139-16 ª 2006 NFER DOI: 10.1080/00131880600732249', 'item_data': {'page': 2, 'source': 'Can a picture ruin a thousand words?The effects of visual resources in exam questions', 'section': 'Null', 'chunk_id': 
4, 'subsection': 'Results'}}
